DOCS-10060 db stored procedure kt (#1253)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: db/1.9/modules/ROOT/pages/database-stored-procedure.adoc

= Execute Stored Procedures Examples - Mule 4

Anypoint Connector for Database (Database Connector) Stored Procedure operation invokes a stored procedure on the database. When the stored procedure returns one or more ResultSet instances, streaming is applied automatically to avoid preemptive consumption of the results, which can lead to performance and memory issues.

> In the following examples, you invoke stored procedures that combine Input, Output, and In Out parameters.

Reviewer: Compare this to the subtitles that follow and consider whether this sentence is clear or accurate: do all the procedures "combine"? I actually totally missed that word, and was looking for subtopics in this order:
Input
Output
In Out

== Configure the Stored Procedure with the Input Parameters Field

> In the Input parameters field, specify parameters that are a map in which keys are the name of an input parameter to be set on the JDBC prepared statement. Each parameter should be referenced in the SQL text using a colon prefix, for example, where `id = :myParamName`. The map’s values contains the actual assignation for each parameter.

Reviewer: I had to read this a couple of times: 

In the Input parameters field, specify parameters that are a map in which keys are the name of....

Is each parameter a map, or are all parameters together a map? "...specify values that create a map"?

Reviewer: "values contains" > "values contain"

> To configure the operation and the parameter, follow the next steps:

Reviewer: To configure the operation and the parameter, or, as the title states, configure the stored procedure?

. In your Studio flow, select the *Stored procedure* operation.
. In the operation configuration screen, set the *SQL Query Text* field to the query to execute, for example:
+
`{ call updatePlanetDescription('Venus', :description) }`
+
. Set the *Input parameters* field to `{'description' : payload}`.

The following screenshot shows the configuration:

.Stored procedure with Input parameter configuration
image::database-stored-example-1.png[Stored procedure with Input parameter configuration]

In the XML editor, the `<db:stored-procedure>` and `<db:input-parameters>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<db:stored-procedure config-ref="dbConfig">
    <db:sql>{ call updatePlanetDescription('Venus', :description) }</db:sql>
    <db:input-parameters>
        #[{'description' : payload}]
    </db:input-parameters>
</db:stored-procedure>
----
== Configure the Stored Procedure with the In Out Parameters Field

> In the In Out Parameters field, specify parameters that are a map in which keys are the name of a parameter to be set on the JDBC prepared statement which is both input and output. Each parameter should be referenced in the SQL text using a colon prefix, for example, where `id = :myParamName`. The map’s values contains the actual assignation for each parameter.

Reviewer: ditto previous question about wording "parameters that are a map"

Reviewer: Does "which is both input and output" modify "name of a parameter," "parameter," or "prepared statement"?
"Which" is preceded by a comma, or replaced by "that" (see style ref.)

> To configure the operation and the parameter, follow the next steps:

Reviewer: ditto question at Line 11

+
`{ call updatePlanetDescription('Venus', :description) }`
+
. Set the *In out parameters* field to `Edit inline`.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new value.
. In the new window, set the *Key* field to `myInt` and the *Value* field to `3`.

The following screenshot shows the configuration:

.Stored procedure with In Out parameters configuration
image::database-stored-example-2.png[Stored procedure with In Out parameters configuration]

In the XML editor, the `<db:stored-procedure>` and `<db:in-out-parameter>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<db:stored-procedure config-ref="dbConfig">
  <db:sql>{ call doubleMyInt(:myInt) }</db:sql>
  <db:in-out-parameters>
      <db:in-out-parameter key="myInt" value="3"/>
  </db:in-out-parameters>
</db:stored-procedure>
----

== Configure the Stored Procedure with the Input and Output Parameters Fields

In the Output Parameters field, specify a list of output parameters to be set on the JDBC prepared statement. Each parameter should be referenced in the SQL text using a colon prefix, for example,  `call multiply(:value, :result)`.

> To configure the operation and the parameter, follow the next steps:

Reviewer: ditto prev. question, Line 11

. In your Studio flow, select the *Stored procedure* operation.
. In the operation configuration screen, set the *SQL Query Text* field to the query to execute, for example:
+
`{ call multiplyInts(:int1, :int2, :result1, :int3, :result2) }`
+

> . Set the *Input parameters* field to `

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Input parameters* field to:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
{
    'int1' : 3,
    'int2' : 4,
    'int3' : 5
}
----
+
[start=4]
. Set the *Output parameters* field to `Edit inline`.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new value.
. In the new window, set the *Key* field to `result1` and the *Type* field to `INTEGER`.
. Repeat the previous three steps to add new values, set the *Key* field to `result2` and the *Type* field to `INTEGER`.

> . Create another value again by setting the *Key* field to `myInt` and the *Type* field to `INTEGER`.

Reviewer: These steps confused me.
Can we say, "Repeat Steps 1 through 3 as many times as necessary to <achieve this>", without repeating any part of those three steps (that is what is confusing)?
Also confusing to me: "Create another value again": what step is this referring back to?
A conceptual graphic here would be great, showing the flow and the repeated sections of it.

The following screenshot shows the configuration:

.Stored procedure with Input and Output parameters configuration
image::database-stored-example-3.png[Stored procedure with Input and Output parameters configuration]

In the XML editor, the `<db:input-parameters>` and `<db:output-parameters>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<db:stored-procedure config-ref="dbConfig">
    <db:sql>{ call multiplyInts(:int1, :int2, :result1, :int3, :result2) }</db:sql>
    <db:input-parameters>
        #[{
            'int1' : 3,
            'int2' : 4,
            'int3' : 5
        }]
    </db:input-parameters>
    <db:output-parameters>
        <db:output-parameter key="result1" type="INTEGER"/>
        <db:output-parameter key="result2" type="INTEGER"/>
        <db:output-parameter key="myInt" type="INTEGER"/>
    </db:output-parameters>
</db:stored-procedure>
----

> == Callable Statements

Reviewer: How does this subtopic fit within the container topic of Executing Stored Procedures?

The introduction to the topic set should mention if not directly name the subtopics contained within. I was not prepared for this topic by anything previous.

Database Connector supports the use of callable statements with the format:

`{ call procedureName(:param1, :param2, ..., :paramN) }`

> The parameters matches positionally, `:paramN` matches the `Nth` parameter in the stored procedure declaration. Make sure that no whitespace is between the name of the stored procedure and the first parentheses.

Reviewer: Faulty number agreement (parameters matches > parameters match/parameter matches), 
but also, what does it mean to "match positionally"? 
I suggest using more words but being clearer, something like "parameters in a certain position in one statement match their peers in the same position in the <other> statement"?

Reviewer: Or maybe just say that parameters between two statements match by position rather than name? Is that correct? It seems to be implied in Line 150?

> In the following example, you are using an Oracle database which was initialized with the creation of table named `SYSTEM.employees` and stored procedure named `createEmployee`:

Reviewer: "In the following example, you are..." does not match the previous example intros that I have seen in the PR.
Try to standardize to the wording in the template or at least be consistent within one deliverable.

Reviewer: Perhaps...:
```suggestion
The following example illustrates the Oracle database that was initialized when you created a table named `SYSTEM.employees` and stored procedure named `createEmployee`:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
    CREATE TABLE SYSTEM.employees(
        employee_id INTEGER GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY,
        employee_name VARCHAR2(100),
        employee_age INTEGER,
        employee_birthday TIMESTAMP,
        PRIMARY KEY(employee_id)
    );

    CREATE PROCEDURE createEmployee(e_name VARCHAR2, e_age NUMBER, e_birth_date DATE) AS
    BEGIN
        INSERT INTO SYSTEM.employees(employee_name, employee_age, employee_birthday) VALUES(e_name, e_age, e_birth_date);
    END;
----

> Database Connector does not support named parameters in callable statements, so attempting to match parameters by name does not work, for example:

Reviewer: This sentence is correct.
Here is another possible wording:
```suggestion
Because Database Connector does not support named parameters in callable statements, attempting to match parameters by name does not work, for example:
```

`{ call createEmployee(employee_age => :age, e_birth_date => :date, e_name => :name) }`

You must provide the parameters in the appropriate order, for example:

`{ call createEmployee(e_name => :name, employee_age => :age, e_birth_date => :date) }`.

> == Use Dates on Stored Procedures

Reviewer: Ditto comments at Line 123.

Database Connector does not support the use of engine-specific embedded functions. For example, if you want to change a date to a specific format before calling a procedure in an Oracle database, the following approach does not work:

`{ call createEmployee(e_name => :name, employee_age => :age, e_birth_date => TO_DATE(:date, 'YYYY-MM-DD HH:mm:ss')) }.`

> Use DataWeave for all data transformations before the invocation to the callable statement. Using the previous example, perform the following transformation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use DataWeave for all data transformations before the invocation of the callable statement. Using the previous example, perform the following transformation:
```

== Callable Statements in Stored Procedures

Database Connector supports the use of callable statements with the format:

`{ call procedureName(:param1, :param2, ..., :paramN) }`

Where `:paramN` matches the `Nth` parameter in the stored procedure declaration. Make sure that no whitespace is between the name of the stored procedure and the first parentheses.

The following example illustrates an Oracle database that was initialized when creating a table named `SYSTEM.employees` and stored procedure named `createEmployee`:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
    CREATE TABLE SYSTEM.employees(
        employee_id INTEGER GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY,
        employee_name VARCHAR2(100),
        employee_age INTEGER,
        employee_birthday TIMESTAMP,
        PRIMARY KEY(employee_id)
    );

    CREATE PROCEDURE createEmployee(e_name VARCHAR2, e_age NUMBER, e_birth_date DATE) AS
    BEGIN
        INSERT INTO SYSTEM.employees(employee_name, employee_age, employee_birthday) VALUES(e_name, e_age, e_birth_date);
    END;
----

Because Database Connector does not support named parameters in callable statements, attempting to match parameters by name does not work, for example:

> `{ call createEmployee(employee_age => :age, e_birth_date => :date, e_name => :name) }`

Reviewer 2: Change `employee_age` with `e_age`

You must provide the parameters in the appropriate order, for example:

> `{ call createEmployee(e_name => :name, employee_age => :age, e_birth_date => :date) }`.

Reviewer 2: replace with `{ call createEmployee(:name, :age, :date) }`

> 

Reviewer 2: Add the following best practices and recommendations which avoid some issues/confusions we had with customers:

- When passing parameters to an SP please:
  - Place all the parameters the SP has (even Optional parameters -the ones with default values)
  - Put them in the same order as the SP has them defined
  - Parametrize all of them (meaning, do not hardcode strings, numbers, etc.)
  
- When giving value to the parameters in the 'Input Parameters' field please:
   - Define each parameter name within single quotes (`'paramName': value`)
   - Default Value: Either use DW or a variable since these are not supported - so if you pass null, empty string and so the SP's default value won't be pushed by Mule

.Stored procedure with Input parameter configuration
image::database-stored-example-1.png[Stored procedure with Input parameter configuration]

In the XML editor, the `<db:stored-procedure>` and `<db:input-parameters>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<db:stored-procedure config-ref="dbConfig">
    <db:sql>{ call updatePlanetDescription('Venus', :description) }</db:sql>
    <db:input-parameters>
        #[{'description' : payload}]
    </db:input-parameters>
</db:stored-procedure>
----
== Configure the In Out Parameters Field in the Stored Procedure Operation

In the In Out Parameters field, specify values that create a map in which keys are the name of a parameter to be set on the JDBC prepared statement which is both input and output. Reference each parameter in the SQL text using a colon prefix, for example, `where id = :myParamName`. The map’s values contain the actual assignation for each parameter.

To configure the Stored Procedure operation:

. In your Studio flow, select the *Stored procedure* operation.
. In the operation configuration screen, set the *SQL Query Text* field to the query to execute, for example:
+

> `{ call updatePlanetDescription('Venus', :description) }`

Reviewer 2: replace with `{ call doubleMyInt(:myInt) }`

+
. Set the *In out parameters* field to `Edit inline`.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new value.
. In the new window, set the *Key* field to `myInt` and the *Value* field to `3`.

The following screenshot shows the configuration:

.Stored procedure with In Out parameters configuration
image::database-stored-example-2.png[Stored procedure with In Out parameters configuration]

In the XML editor, the `<db:stored-procedure>` and `<db:in-out-parameter>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<db:stored-procedure config-ref="dbConfig">
  <db:sql>{ call doubleMyInt(:myInt) }</db:sql>
  <db:in-out-parameters>
      <db:in-out-parameter key="myInt" value="3"/>
  </db:in-out-parameters>
</db:stored-procedure>
----

> == Configure the Input and Output Parameters Fields in the Stored Procedure Operation

Reviewer 2: replace with `Configure the Output Parameters Field in the Stored Procedure Operation` for consistency with the prior titles.

In the Output Parameters field, specify a list of values to be set on the JDBC prepared statement. Reference each parameter in the SQL text using a colon prefix, for example,  `call multiply(:value, :result)`.

To configure the Stored Procedure operation:

. In your Studio flow, select the *Stored procedure* operation.
. In the operation configuration screen, set the *SQL Query Text* field to the query to execute, for example:
+
`{ call multiplyInts(:int1, :int2, :result1, :int3, :result2) }`
+
. Set the *Input parameters* field to:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
{
    'int1' : 3,
    'int2' : 4,
    'int3' : 5
}
----
+
[start=4]
. Set the *Output parameters* field to `Edit inline`.
. Click the plus sign (*+*) to add a new value.
. In the new window, set the *Key* field to `result1` and the *Type* field to `INTEGER`.
. Repeat the steps 5 and 6 to add a new value, set the *Key* field to `result2` and the *Type* field to `INTEGER`.

> . Repeat again the steps 5 and 6 to add another value and set the *Key* field to `myInt` and the *Type* field to `INTEGER`.

Reviewer 2: delete, this is not present in the statement

The following screenshot shows the configuration:

.Stored procedure with Input and Output parameters configuration
image::database-stored-example-3.png[Stored procedure with Input and Output parameters configuration]

In the XML editor, the `<db:input-parameters>` and `<db:output-parameters>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<db:stored-procedure config-ref="dbConfig">
    <db:sql>{ call multiplyInts(:int1, :int2, :result1, :int3, :result2) }</db:sql>
    <db:input-parameters>
        #[{
            'int1' : 3,
            'int2' : 4,
            'int3' : 5
        }]
    </db:input-parameters>
    <db:output-parameters>
        <db:output-parameter key="result1" type="INTEGER"/>
        <db:output-parameter key="result2" type="INTEGER"/>

>         <db:output-parameter key="myInt" type="INTEGER"/>

Reviewer 2: delete, this is not present in the statement
